---
title: "[AAAI '25] Evaluating Image Hallucination in Text-to-Image Generation with Question-Answering"
collection: papers
permalink: /papers/main-image-hallucination-benchmark/
date: 2024-10-15
authors: "Youngsun Lim*, Hojun Choi*, Hyunjung Shim"
conference: "The 39th Annual AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence 2025"
paper_link: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.12784"
---

Our paper, authored by **Youngsun Lim\***, Hojun Choi\*, and Hyunjung Shim (*Equal Contribution), has been accepted to the **39th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI 2025)**.  
You can check out our project on [GitHub](https://github.com/SGT-LIM/I-HallA-v1.0).


## Abstract

The paper introduces I-HallA (Image Hallucination evaluation with Question Answering), a novel evaluation metric that measures factuality in images generated by text-to-image models. I-HallA uses GPT-4o to create question-answer sets that assess whether generated images correctly depict factual information. The I-HallA v1.0 dataset contains 1.2K image-text pairs, covering science and history domains, with 1,000 questions aimed at challenging these images. This work evaluates five state-of-the-art models, showing that they often fail to depict factual information accurately. I-HallA correlates strongly with human judgments, providing a reliable tool to identify image hallucination.

## Method

### Overview

I-HallA evaluates image hallucination by leveraging VQA to verify factual details not explicitly mentioned in the text prompts. The pipeline involves generating images from TTI models, creating factual reasoning with GPT-4o, and forming question-answer sets to assess the hallucinations.

### Dataset Construction

The I-HallA v1.0 dataset includes prompts extracted from five science and history textbooks, chosen for their curated and fact-verified content. Each prompt is paired with factual images and hallucinated images generated by TTI models. The benchmark evaluates whether the images align with factual data based on generated QA sets.


### Benchmark Structure

1. **Prompt & Image Collection**: Textbook captions and figures serve as sources for factual prompts and images.
2. **Enhancement Using GPT-4o**: GPT-4o adds reasoning to the prompt-image pairs to validate factuality.
3. **QA Set Generation**: Multiple-choice QA sets are formed to assess image hallucinations, reviewed and refined by human annotators.

## Results

I-HallA was applied to five models: DALL-E 3, Stable Diffusion v1.4, v1.5, v2.0, and SD XL-base. DALL-E 3 demonstrated the lowest hallucination rates, while all models exhibited issues with factual consistency. I-HallA scores highly correlated with human assessments, confirming the metric’s reliability.

## Conclusion

This paper introduces a new method for evaluating image hallucination in TTI models. By leveraging factual reasoning and VQA, I-HallA effectively measures the factuality of generated images. The strong correlation with human judgment shows promise for its future application in improving the factual accuracy of text-to-image models.


You can access the full paper [here](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/evaluating-image-hallucination-in-text-to) or preview it below:

<iframe src="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.12784" width="640" height="480"></iframe>
